what is my fundamental objection to the
advice that basis is giving young men my
fundamental objection is not that the
advice doesn't work the advice can work
I think everyone knows that what even if
it's one out of a hundred or one out of
a thousand or one out of 10,000
eventually his advice will get results
for people and for some people the
success rate is going to be enough to
positively reinforce those behaviors
again and again so it's a give an
example part a big part of his advice is
just walking up to random women at the
gym and you know talking game to them
well if a guy does that and it works
once in his mind that's probably going
to justify doing it a thousand more
times even if it fails 999 times and
then works one more time again it's
really easy for me to see how that can
lead to a self-reinforcing loop of
behaviors and on a deeper level a set of
values that changes who you are as a man
and that's the side of the equation I
wanted to draw attention to in this
hopefully concise video okay I can't say
that it won't work that it won't get
results if you send out nude photos of
yourself to a thousand women there
there's a whole side of the internet
that exists for that reason there are
you know there are special websites
where that's encouraged but that's
acceptable and again I don't know if it
works one time out of a thousand or one
time out of ten thousand I can't tell
you not to do that because it won't work
I'm telling you not to do that because
I'm asking you to think about what kind
of a man you want to be and who you want
to become and not even all that
long-term I mean today I mean this year
I mean just the next couple of years and
the type of women you're courting
and the way you're meeting them the way
you're pursuing them the relationships
you bring into your life and what you
learn from them that is a big part of
who you are as a man that is a big part
of who you become okay there's a
in a 50-cent song where he talks about
he advises his listener don't chase
women chase money because when you chase
money the women come with it very common
sentiment in our society at a very
common advice from pickup artists who
just say well focus on your career in
order to get laid
you've got to think that through that's
gonna change how you think about your
career how you value things how you
behave your career that also changes who
you are as a man in ways both shallow
and profound all right and I just want
to throw in a few words here of
self-criticism right now and in the last
three years I meet women through YouTube
I'm in a committed relationship I met
her on YouTube if someone who knew me
before my life before that said to me
hey man you've changed you've changed
since you started pursuing women on the
end of this way I'd say yes you're damn
right I have I'm not even sorry that
makes it sound like I'm part of right no
I have changed and I'm self-critical and
himself aware of that I have changed and
you know what before I used to meet
women at the University Library I used
to meet women at academic conferences I
used to meet women at manuscript Oriya
and national archives and
okay I'm so critical about that too I'm
not like saying to you in a simple
black-and-white sense like meeting women
at the gym is bad and meeting women at
an academic conference for cancer
research is good I'm not saying that if
you go to academic conferences you can
see and feel the difference between the
guys who are just there for the
conference who are just there to present
their research just there to talk about
their paper whatever it is and the guys
who are there hoping to meet a member of
the opposite sex or maybe hoping to me
remember the same sex the guys who are
there looking for that whole range of
human experiences from one-night stands
to commitment relationships with a lot
of gray areas in between it changes you
it changes what you're doing at that
conference and the way you're doing it
it changes whether or not you got your
hair and you cut your your suit on point
where you go to the Congress sure that's
a shallow level but I'm telling you in a
falen sense that there really is a
difference between the dudes who are who
are doing a job who become a lawyer who
are pursuing that social status in order
to get laid and the guys who have been
becoming a lawyer
sure to make the world a better place to
do human rights law do something else
and there were guys doing human rights
law to get laid because that's preferred
to see people yes this is something that
changes who you are and how you're
living in all these walks of life it's
really easy for you to think you have
one part of your life that's your career
one part of your life that's your
education and a separate part of your
life a separate compartment that's your
sexuality fundamentally I want to tell
you that's just not so you learn a lot
and you change a lot given the women you
open the door to in your life
the women who come into your into your
bedroom the women who come into your
life the women you share your time with
the women your eating breakfast with all
that is built into even one-night stands
let alone long-term relationships or
attempted long-term relationships that
maybe don't turn out to be so long-term
okay you learn from the women in your
life you learn from them more than you
want to admit to yourself you're
learning whether you're dating shallow
ho-bags you met at a bar random chicks
you met at the gym or women you met at
an academic conference about cancer
you're learning all the time
you can't turn that off you're changing
the type of man you are
how you conduct yourself in pursuing
women and then what happens after that
when you bring those women into your
life when you do get laid when the
advice does work that changes you in
ways you can't fully anticipate you
can't fully understand yourself and
that's why I find the advice from basis
so dangerous it's not because it doesn't
work but because it fails to appreciate
that your sexuality just like your
politics ultimately is a decision about
what kind of man you want to be what
kind of person
want to become